---
layout: static_post
title: Presentations
permalink: presentations/
---
Publications
---
1. Matsuzawa T., et al. "Decay of turbulence generated by vortex ring collision" (in prep.)
2. Chen P., Weady S, Atis S., **Matsuzawa T.**, Shelly M J., Irvine W.T.M., "Emergence of self propulsion, flocking and a chiral active phase from particles spinning at intermediate Reynolds numbers.", <i>Nat. Phys.</i> (2024) (accepted).
3. **Matsuzawa T.** & Irvine W.T.M., "Turbulence through sustained vortex ring collisions." _Physical Review Fluids_ 8.11 (2023).
4. **Matsuzawa T.**, Mitchell N.P., Perrard S., Irvine W.T.M., "Creation of an isolated turbulent blob fed by vortex rings." <i>Nat. Phys.</i> 19, 1193–1200 (2023).
5. **Matsuzawa T.**, Zalanyi L., Kiss T. and Erdi P., "Multi-scale modeling of altered synaptic plasticity related to Amyloid beta effects.", <i>Neural Networks</i>, (2017).
6. Erdi P., **Matsuzawa T.**, John T., Kiss T. and Zalanyi L., "Connecting Epilepsy and Alzheimer’s Disease: Modeling of Normal and Pathological Rhythmicity and Synaptic Plasticity Related to Amyloid-beta Effects." In: Erdi P, Bhattacharya BS and Cochran Al (Eds.): <i>Computational Neurology and Psychiatry</i> (Springer Series in Bio-/Neuroinformatics) 1st ed. 2017 Edition, pp 93-119.

---
Talks
---
1. "Decay and Propagation of a Turbulent Blob”, American Physical Society, March Meeting, 2023

2. "Creation of an Isolated Turbulent Blob Sustained by Vortex Ring Injection”
American Physical Society, March Meeting, 2022

3. "Creation of an Isolated Turbulent Blob Sustained by Vortex Ring Injection”
American Physical Society, March Meeting, 2021

4. "Creation of an Isolated Turbulent Blob Sustained by Vortex Ring Injection”
American Physical Society, Division of Fluid Dynamics, Virtual, 2020

5. "Creation of an Isolated Turbulent Blob Sustained by Vortex Ring Injection"
American Physical Society March Meeting, Virtual, 2019

6. ”How does nature cook and eat up a turbulent puff?” 
The University of Chicago, Friday seminar, 2019

7. ”Topology in Fluids”
Japanese Researchers Crossing in Chicago, Consulate of Japan, 2018

8. ”Confinement of Turbulence in Experimental Settings”
The University of Chicago, Friday seminar, 2017

9. ”Multi-Scale Modeling of Altered Synaptic Plasticity Related to Amyloid-Beta Effects”
Kalamazoo College, Conference for Complex Systems, Invited, 2017

10. ”Targeting Studies of the Second-Generation Mu2e Experiment”
Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, 2015

11. ”Laser Break-Down Spectroscopy of Alloys”
KEK (The High Energy Accelerator Research Organization), 2014

---
Posters
---
1. "Solutes Shift Phase Equilibria of Biomolecular Condensates"
12th Liquid Matter Conference, Sep. 2024 ([poster](https://github.com/tmatsuzawa/tmatsuzawa.github.io/tree/master/presentations/posters/2024_LMC_Poster.pdf))

2. ”Realization of Confined Turbulence Through Multiple Vortex Ring Collision” 
Simons Foundation, Turbulence Across Vast Scales, Poster Dec. 2018 ([poster](https://github.com/tmatsuzawa/tmatsuzawa.github.io/tree/master/presentations/posters/201912_takumi_flatiron_FINAL.pdf))

3. ”Characterization of Thin-Sheet Ejection Using Low-Viscosity Fluids”
The University of Chicago, Experimental Physics Project, 2017 (Available upon request)

4. ”Targeting Studies of the Second-Generation Mu2e Experiment”
Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, 2015 ([poster](https://github.com/tmatsuzawa/tmatsuzawa.github.io/tree/master/presentations/posters/mu2e.pdf))

5. ”Modeling Altered Synaptic Plasticity due to Amyloid-Beta”
Annual Meeting of Society for Neuroscience, Chicago, 2015 (Available upon request)

6. ”Laser Break-Down Spectroscopy of Alloys”
KEK (The High Energy Accelerator Research Organization), 2014
