---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Sharing the moon
category: personal
tags: [ 'personal' ]
---
"Stay warm, Miss. The moon is looking pretty tonight." I texted her on the way home from a late shift at the lab.
"月が綺麗ですね. There is something beautiful in sharing the moon- 千里共嬋娟? :)" She responded with an elegant wit. 

"月が綺麗ですね" is directly translated to "The moon is beautiful"; however, it has an implicit meaning of "I love you." 
The story is that 夏目漱石(Soseki Natsume), a Japanese novelist in the 20th Century, was asked by his student how one should translate "I love you" into Japanese.
His response was "Japanese does not confess love as a part of their culture like Europeans. 'The moon is beautiful' would do."
Whether this story was true or not is rather a small matter. It captures a kind of aesthetics Japanese calls 奥ゆかしさ(okuyukashisa). 
The word is often translated as "refinedness" or "civility" but it means rather aesthetics that is hidden from surface.
"奥ゆき"(okuyuki) means "depth" or an "inner part" and "奥ゆかしさ" truly refers to the sense of depth. 

In modern days, avid Soseki readers became quite a few even in Japan. A casual mention in her response naturally impressed me.
Considering that she was not Japanese, her use of the phrase did not carry the implicit message. 
However, it was admittedly soothing to receive such words from the person I adore.

"千里共嬋娟" is a part of 水调歌头(Prelude to Water Melody), a famous poem by 苏轼(Su Shi) or 苏东坡(Su DongPo). 
Naturally, I do not remember all the lines but have surely appreciated some Chinese poems in my teenage. 
(It is a part of the standard educational curriculum in Japan at the time.) 

The stanza goes like this.

人有悲歡離合，| People experience sorrow, joy, separation and reunion,
月有陰晴圓缺，| The moon may be dim or bright, round or crescent shaped,
此事古難全。 | This imperfection has been going on since the beginning of time.
但願人長久， | May we all be blessed with longevity,
千里共嬋娟。 | Though thousands of miles apart, we are still able to share the beauty of the moon together.


With a tired mind on the road covered with snow, I looked up the sky, and thought of her. 
(Coincidentally, she lives about 1000 miles away from where I live.)
Perhaps, she did look up the sky after receiving my text. Even if she did not, it did not ultimately matter.

The fact that one could explore wide branches of thoughts by dropping a word is astounding. 
I had the feeling that she felt the same. Am I too narcissistic? 
Perhaps. The rarity of the feeling made me irrationally think so.
Yet again, I felt close to her at an unprecedented level despite the limited number of encounters we had.

It stimulated the naive side of me to wonder about a life constantly having such lovely nights.
Chuckle. Too poetic. She'd say.


We naturally went on discussing the moon. On such a night of thoughts, it is rather foolish not to be carried away.